# Qiskit QuaC Provider and Backends

This Python package serves as an easily-installable interface between Qiskit and QuaC (Quantum in C), a fast, highly parallel noisy quantum system simulator. This interface is useful for two primary reasons.

1.  It allows potential users to interact with QuaC via an already-familiar interface (i.e., Qiskit)

2.  It allows QuaC to leverage the many excellent features (like circuit optimization) present in Qiskit

The code in this repository is based on the Qiskit provider/backend code structure for maximum compatibility and ease of use (current Qiskit providers include Aer and IBMQ).

## How do I install the QuaC Qiskit Provider?
Neither QuaC nor its Qiskit Provider are on PyPI yet. In order to install QuaC, run
`git clone -b diagonalize-python-interface https://github.com/0tt3r/QuaC` to clone the latest version of QuaC. Then, run the following command to build and install QuaC
and its Python bindings (instructions also available on the QuaC repository):

```
git clone -b maint https://bitbucket.org/petsc/petsc petsc
cd petsc

export PETSC_DIR=${PWD}
export PETSC_ARCH=linux-gnu-c-complex 

./configure --with-scalar-type=complex --download-mpich --download-fblaslapack=1 \
  --with-debugging=no COPTFLAGS=-O3 CXXOPTFLAGS=-O3 FOPTFLAGS=-O3 --with-64-bit-indices
make PETSC_DIR=${PETSC_DIR} PETSC_ARCH=${PETSC_ARCH} all

cd ..
git clone -b maint https://bitbucket.org/slepc/slepc
cd slepc

export SLEPC_DIR=${PWD}
./configure
make SLEPC_DIR=${SLEPC_DIR}

cd ..
git clone -b diagonalize-python-interface https://github.com/0tt3r/QuaC
cd QuaC
make
cd python
make
python setup.py install
```

Now that QuaC is installed, you can install the Qiskit Quac provider:

```
git clone https://github.com/0tt3r/QuaC-qiskit
cd QuaC-qiskit
pip install .
```

## How do I use QuaC as a provider?
Just the same as you would use Aer or IBMQ as your provider. An object `Quac` is provided upon import for interfacing with and managing backends, which is designed
to be similar in use to the imported Aer object.
```python
from qiskit import Aer
from qiskit import IBMQ
from qiskit.providers.quac import Quac
```

## What kinds of backends are supported?
You can see supported backends by running the following command:
```python
from qiskit.providers.quac import Quac
Quac.backends()
```
A plethora of IBMQ hardware backends can be simulated in QuaC.
These hardware backends are those available via Qiskit:
1. armonk
2. yorktown
3. tenerife
4. ourense
5. vigo
6. valencia
7. essex
8. london
9. burlington
10. melbourne
11. rueschlikon
12. tokyo
13. poughkeepsie
14. almaden
15. singapore
16. johannesburg
17. boeblingen
18. cambridge
19. paris
20. rochester
21. rome
22. athens

Each physical hardware backend has two types of QuaC backends: a density backend and a
counts backend. Additional types of backends are planned, and will be described in this README upon their addition.
The density backend returns a list of probabilities free of stochastic noise. The counts backends run a multinomial
experiment given the probabilities of output states to generate frequency lists.

If you are operating on very specific hardware or hardware not available to the general public, this
plugin can still be used. Custom properties and configurations can be loaded into the QuaC/Qiskit
provider, but must be in Qiskit IBMQ format. Please reference [this link](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/tree/master/qiskit/test/mock/backends/yorktown)
to the Qiskit-Terra GitHub repository JSON configuration files for the Yorktown IBMQ backend.

An alternative (but less customizable) way of specifying custom backends is by retrieving either the
`generic_quac_density_simulator` or `generic_quac_counts_simulator` backends and including specific
parameters as `kwargs`. As an example, suppose you want to run some test experiments with custom T1 and
T2 noise, a custom basis gate set, and two qubits. You might define a T1/T2 noise dictionary called
`lindblad` and then select a tailored generic backend as follows:
`backend=Quac.get_backend('generic_quac_density_simulator', n_qubits=2, basis_gates=['id', 'u3'])'`.
Then, results can be viewed as follows: `execute(qc, backend, lindblad=lindblad).result().get_counts()`.

## Where can I find examples?
A growing list of examples of using this plugin can be found under the `examples` folder in this repository. Examples exist in both
Python file form and Jupyter notebook form.

## Where can I find more information about QuaC?
The main QuaC repository is located on GitHub [here](https://github.com/0tt3r/QuaC/). A branch called
`diagonalize-python-interface` contains the most recently updated Python bindings.
Additionally, you may also wish to check the QuaC website [here](https://0tt3r.github.io/QuaC/).

## Where can I find documentation for this package?
Please check the `docs` folder in this repository. Read-the-docs style html pages can be generated by
executing `make html` inside the `docs` folder. In the future, these will be hosted on a website.

## Where can I send feature requests?
Please open an `issue` describing the feature you would like to see added.

## How do I run tests?
To run individual unit tests, just run them as you would any other Python script.